What is the positive left-wing vision in
American life right now?
I
I mean, I think the the positive vision
would be like a society of shared
flourishing and equality and solidarity.
>> me
>> [laughter]
>> all right, settle all right.
>> [music]
>> In 2024,
the Democrats didn't just lose, they got
destroyed.
>> Crushed.
>> Crushed. Crushed in '24. The Democrats
got shellacked. But a lot has happened
since Donald Trump [music] returned to
office. About 62,000
veterans got pushed out of their jobs.
>> There are growing concerns about
tariffs. Maybe the children will have
two dollars instead of 30 [music]
dollars. So, where are the Democrats
now? Do they have an agenda? Only 28% of
Americans view the Democratic Party
favorably.
>> Liberal donors saying,
"What did you do for me last time when I
gave you several hundred thousand
dollars?" Is being against Trump enough?
And are they ready [music] for whatever
the age of AI is about to do to American
politics?
My guest this week has to think [music]
a lot about Democratic Party battles and
progressive angst.
>> Democrats can't do what the Republicans
have done. Democrats are still running
as the underdog. That's because the show
that he hosts on MSNBC [music]
speaks to millions of the most liberal
American viewers.
Chris Hayes, welcome to Interesting
Times.
>> to be here. It's great to have you. So,
you are in my own mind, at least, not
just a nightly news host and podcaster,
but a true man of the left.
I think that's true.
>> Is that fair? I think that's fair. So,
when we first met, you were writing for
In These Times, which for those who
don't know is a
classic classical I don't even know what
the socialist socialist newspaper.
Um so, those are your roots, and I want
to talk to you about the left and where
it's going, what it stands for, how it
relates to our exciting new
technological future. Um but first we're
going to do a little bit of partisan
politics. We're going to talk about the
Democrats, which is not the same
>> No. as the left.
>> As they will tell you. As they will tell
you, right, maybe.
Um so here we are, and I would say, you
know, we're about 14 months beyond a
point in American politics when Trump
had won, and the Democrats were
I don't know, flat on their backs as as
beaten as
I've seen them since 2004, maybe. And
now there's a certain kind of confidence
on the Democratic side that, you know,
they're not just going to be living
under Trump's rule forever.
But they're also
very unpopular Yeah. unpopular with
swing voters, unpopular with their own
base, with the left. Um so, you know,
from your
position
uh give me give me a state of the
Democrats.
How's the party? Well, I think I think
the first thing to just acknowledge is,
you know, first of all, thermostatic
public opinion does a lot. Does a lot.
So, then you've got you know, I I think
just an incredible amount of overreach
uh by Trump, a sort of misunderstanding
of the whatever mandate there was.
He just has a project that's distinct
from what most Americans want, which is
a project to transform the
constitutional order into a personalist
presidential dictatorship.
Like, and I think I think that's
actually not a particularly popular
project. It's not Yeah, I would say it's
not what
the people who had swung to Biden and
swung back to Trump were voting for.
>> Correct.
>> They That That was not like
the president having absolute authority
to level levy tariffs, you know,
anywhere he wants. That was not the core
issue of the 2024 election.
So, all of that gets you a long way. I
think the big question is, right, so
there's a bunch of places where
Democrats are still not trusted as much
as Republicans. Things like immigration,
crime, the economy still, just if you
ask like the partisan trust question.
So, there's there's sort of ideological
factions within the party. We can talk
about that.
Those ideological factions, I think are
a little displaced now on a few other
more important axes that are the sort of
main ones of conflict. One is kind of
business as usual versus radical break.
And sometimes that looks like go along
to get along or fight, fight, fight.
Um
Those are
>> would be, for example, the debate over
the government shutdown. Like would be a
classic example of some people in the
party saying
you know, if we do this, it helps Trump.
And other people saying, how can you
just, you know, stand here letting Trump
run roughshod if you have tools to do
>> Exactly. And I think, you know, I want
to give credence to both sides of the
argument cuz I think
those are fraught debates that that that
there is a real profound question,
right? Like at one level, it's like,
should you be
funding a Department of Justice that is
like
manufacturing obviously pretextual
criminal cases against political
opponents?
I think there's a case you shouldn't. At
the same time,
by that logic, you kind of just pull
yourself out into a total boycott of the
government, right? Because in some
senses, he's doing some things in each
department that are, you know,
manifestly abusive from the perspective
of a lot of legislators [snorts] and
Democratic politicians and and and
voters.
So, I think there's a real tension there
that's hard. You've got the sort of
momentum on the side of the fight folks,
not business as usual. And I think
that's going to be an interesting
animating force in the primaries this
year. You know, the Democrats never
really had their Tea Party.
Levels of trust in the party
establishment have been higher. The
level of like just pure rage at the
party establishment, like I hate this
party and anyone that
at the top of it that animated a lot of
the Tea Party and then Trump has not
quite broken that way in the Democratic
Party. So, one big question is that
looms over the party is like how much do
we see that play out this year?
Particularly along that axis and and
related to that axis of conflict, you
know, status quo radical change or go
along to get along versus fight is just
new leadership versus old leadership. Um
you know, there is a real exhaustion.
A real sense that
people that came of age, you know, 20 or
30 years ago and had their sort of
formative political experiences then
are not well tuned to the moment. Yeah,
I feel like the connection to
the leaders who kind of held the
Democratic center together is gone.
But um
before but before we get to sort of who
the new leaders are, how does this how
does this affect
policy, right? Like
are there actual policy fights happening
in the Democratic coalition right now
that are meaningful that we should be
paying attention to?
Yeah.
You know,
there are some, right? So, like the
clearest, right, is on foreign policy
particularly vis-a-vis Israel. I mean,
that's just an enormous clear fight.
Like should the US government um align
itself in a bipartisan fashion with the
Israeli government? Should it give them
weapons? Should it, you know, fund them?
And does that just would you say that
broadly tracks the kind of business as
usual versus
fight lines? Like in the main primary,
which for those who aren't following it
closely pits the Democratic governor of
Maine, Janet Mills, against Brehm Plater
who really is a kind of Democratic Tea
Party
>> Yes, very much so.
>> figure complete with a you know,
checkered possibly Nazi adjacent tattoo
>> I'll tattoo, past, whatever, you know,
um
but there it would seem like Plater
would be fully aligned with the, you
know, no more of of liberal Zionism is
the dominant force, right? Definitely.
And in fact, I think one of the things I
think it's worth actually spending a
little time on this ideological fight
because I think it's come to kind of
occupy a huge center of the fights. Like
there's a bunch of things that have been
stacked atop it if that makes sense.
Right? So,
the sort of outsider insider incumbent
fresh voice status quo radical break
like
age even Right.
>> have lined up around this axis. And I
think in some ways the reason it's so
important is because it just I think the
experience of the Gaza war represented
both just a genuine and profound wedge
tension on a on a coalition that
literally contains
people on both sides of what is arguably
the most polarizing issue in the globe
over the last thousands of years. Like
people people strongly and passionately
on both sides, right? Both within the
coalition, right? Yep. So, so you've got
that. Like that's always going to be a
huge problem for any political
coalition. But what's I think sort of
happened is
it's come to represent a bunch of other
like
corporate versus grassroots,
establishment versus challenger kind of
axes. So, it's it's both a first level
fight about an actual policy
disagreement.
And then there's a bunch of
ways in which that fight have come to
sort of embody something broader about
what kind of Democratic Party it's going
to be.
What about So, what about domestic
policy then? If you've If the Gaza war
is like the key
place where policy lines up, are there
meaningful domestic policy arguments?
There's a fight right now within the
Democratic Party about ICE enforcement,
which I think is really important and
interesting one, right? So, like there's
the
ICE needs to be reformed, so we should,
you know, take the masks off. There's
ICE needs to be abolished.
The country did perfectly fine for 230
years without that particular agency.
Um
which that with that is a kind of proxy
fight for a larger fight, which I think
isn't actually being had right now in
earnest, but will in the primaries.
Meaning what should our immigration
policy be?
>> is what should our immigration policy
be?
I do think there's a sense that the old
the old consensus is a dead, right? Um
the the and the
>> What was the old consensus?
>> was called what was called by the groups
the notorious groups was comprehensive
immigration reform, right?
>> Basically, the old structure of
democratic policy making on immigration
went this way.
Increased enforcement increased
enforcement particularly funds, right?
There was a ton of money that was
particularly in '09, '10, '11 put into
border enforcement.
You know, I think people sometimes under
appreciate just how much the spending on
the infrastructure of essentially
immigration enforcement has gone up in
this country.
And then in exchange, you know, uh path
to citizenship for the however many
folks that are here. Now, that started
to come apart in a bunch of different
directions. One, it starts to come apart
because starting in 2014
there's just a new phenomenon that
starts happening. And I think this is
also under appreciated, right? The
immigration arguments that we had
particularly in the '90s and the '10s
largely were about undocumented
immigration who are economic migrants
largely from Mexico. That was the sort
of focus of it. This new thing starts
happening with right border
presentments, right? We start getting in
>> Meaning meaning people who show up at
the border claiming asylum, right? Who
are not who are not sort of sneaking
across to Exactly, right? This is a key
key difference, right? It's like they're
not hiring a coyote to sneak in
overnight and then like right get over.
They're they're actually coming and
saying like there's a part of your law
that applies to me and
>> Right.
and then that you know, those numbers
they sort of expand, they contract, they
expand wildly in 2023 quite famously.
2020 right 2021. Right. Biden. right?
Biden, but then they they go, you know,
they they really grow and then they come
down. But 2022-2023 they go really high.
The reason I say all this and walk
through this history is that
the way that policy making happens in
Democratic coalition politics is like
there's sort of grassroots fights,
there's and then there's policy
apparatus and then there's what's called
the groups and there's these sort of
like coordinating middle spaces that
these policy arguments happen in.
I think there's a lack right now
of consensus on what is that affirmative
vision there. Right. But part I see to
me and you can tell me why this is
wrong. It seems to me that there's a
desire actually to default back to back
to what you just described as
the old consensus from at least some
Democrats, right? That you'll you'll
have people where essentially the view
is
okay, things got out of hand under
Biden. Um, but Trump's enforcement is
super unpopular.
>> Correct. But we don't want to go all the
way back to
what the Biden administration was doing,
which was effectively allowing millions
of people into the country on the
promise of giving them a hearing at some
future date. We don't want to go back to
that. We concede that was unpopular. So,
what's the sweet spot? Guess what? We're
going to say we'll do border enforcement
like Trump is doing, that'll be popular
and then we'll do a path to citizenship.
Boom, problem solved. Like I I hear that
from Democrats. I think you're right. I
just think it's not going to work.
I think there's a and to me it's a
little I think there's a few things. I
mean, one, it reminds me of sometimes
you see politicians to go back to that
sort of defining Israel-Gaza thing. It's
sometimes you hear a politician cornered
on a question
about Israel and they say Israel has a
right to defend itself. And it's one of
these sort of like
thought-terminating cliches, right? It's
just like when you have nothing else,
just go with that. It's like, well, who
can argue with that, right? It's like
this sort of, you know, path to citizen,
border enforcement Pattison's ship has
this kind of Right, who could be against
it?
>> That's the sweet spot and I honestly I
think
there's a reason for it. Like I think
there's
structural and actual substantive policy
reasons that there's a that's a
combination that works both in polling
and policy.
To me the bigger thing is
there's a fundamental fight over what
kind of country we are happening right
now that cannot be addressed with that
at that level. I mean
the emergence of a genuine blood and
soil strain of conservatism. This
country is for us and by us the people
who can go and visit their ancestors
graves where they will bury their
children.
That's that's what this country is.
It's not a country of ideas. It's not a
creedal nation. All that [snorts] sort
of pluralist claptrap that you got
taught.
Uh people come from all over and they
can all be Americans. The famous Reagan
speech where he says it you know you you
you you can go to Germany and can't be a
German. You can go to Italy and can't be
Italian but anyone can come here and be
an American.
>> his This was his last speech, right?
Basically, yes. Which is a perfect
articulation of what used to be a fairly
kind of consensus vision
that underlay the the debates happening
above it.
That consensus torn apart.
When that fight is happening at this
elemental level, I think it's very hard
to to come back in with the like the old
policy question without actually making
an affirmative case for what kind of
country you want. But why can't you make
the Reagan case
and pair it with
a
moderate seeming agenda. I mean it's
it's seems to me it seems to me
like when I when I look at younger
younger right-wingers associated with
you know nationalism
what you'll see often is that you know
if you push people even sort of
self-proclaimed
you know Christian nationalists who
believe you know that
white America is under threat and so on
like are still kind of civic
nationalists, right? Like the the actual
support for a true, you know,
heritage Americans are the only real
Americans is really narrow. So, if the
Republicans seem to be moving in that
direction,
that seems like an opportunity for the
Democrats to present themselves as an
extremely normie, mainstream party, but
with the problem that nobody trusts them
to enforce the border, right?
>> well, that's the problem. And I think
Well, one one place that you have to
deal with this head-on is a side is
changing asylum law. It is bizarre to me
that this thing, which is the central
technical issue at the heart of the way
that we've experienced um
immigration in the country since really
since 2014. I remember covering that. Um
Like that was a huge moment, right?
People's kids start showing up at the
border.
>> child migration crisis, yes. Um
it's kind of weird that like there has
been no progress on rewriting the law on
this. I mean, even to just to flip it on
the other side for a second,
you would think a thing that a
Republican would
unified government would do
would [snorts] be like, "Wait a second.
Yes, we're going to close down the
border using executive action.
But this thing is broken and written by
libs. Like, let's change asylum law."
Yes. Has it happened?
>> You you would you would imagine that,
but you would imagine that a Republican
administration would ask Congress to do
a lot of things that this administration
has not.
>> So, but but that's a vacuum, right? For
Democrats.
>> a vacuum, but it's a vacuum, it seems to
me, that only
a relatively small small group of sort
of self-consciously moderate Democrats
would want to claim. Like if you're on
the
insurgent side, the you know, the
insurgent side, and then you you've got
an insurgent vision, plus you agree with
Chris Hayes that we're having this kind
of existential battle about
what kind of country we are, are you
really going to want to be the Democrat
who comes out and says, "And by the way,
we're going to reform asylum so fewer
people can apply for asylum here." That
isn't that an impossible sell in the
Democratic Party right now?
>> think it is, honestly. I think
I think
my own way I'm not the politician who's
going to do this, right? But my own
thing is
>> Well, well, we'll see, man.
>> is is
>> [laughter]
>> is Your time may come. Just to be clear,
I want to just want to say there is an
absolutely to me compelling case for
essentially
open borders, like in a moral sense,
like
I I don't think
>> We're saving this clip for when you do
run for president.
>> I mean, I don't personally I would not
support it as a politician. I wouldn't
vote for it. But I also think it's not
like a ludicrous idea.
>> Yeah, you and the Cato Institute are
there. [laughter] Yeah, absolutely.
>> So, and that animating world spirit,
you're right to identify as animating a
huge part of the left and fundamentally
causing a tension with the fact that
most people don't want open borders.
And there are people that are morally
committed to essentially that vision.
And I don't think they're necessarily
like ethically incorrect, right?
As a policy, I don't think it works. And
most importantly, it's impossible, I
think, to marshal majority
you know, support for that.
So, in this sense
to me, the fundamental thing I think to
keep in mind is
immigration policy has to be
in the national interest
first
orderly and humane.
Right?
And the key part of that, and this is
why I come back around to this
discussion about what kind of nation we
are.
The key thing that has fallen away, I
think, on the Democratic side in this
discussion is the first one.
It is in the national interest. Like,
immigrants are great. Immigrants are
awesome. Like, immigration is an
incredible bounty and gift to this
country.
It is the reason that
the differentiating thing that has made
America different. Again, I'm just going
back to like
the civic pluralism of a like a 1980s
public school education
in New York City.
It's amazing that we have all these
people from all these different places
who bring all these different kind of
talents and perspectives and come here
and become American and bring that to do
things like win gold medals and start
companies and Right. Be your doctor. And
so you have to sell you have to sell but
you have to but you have to make that
argument in the style you know you have
to make the 1980s New York City public
school argument which was perhaps
slightly more liberal than the country
as a whole combined with an argument
that persuades people that you're not
going to do what Joe Biden did right and
so maybe so that let's let's talk about
potential leaders of the Democratic
Party who could make that argument or or
not right but like
who who is the leadership class for the
Democrats
going into 2026 and beyond? Well
it's very I think out parties are always
in this position where there is no
national leader.
>> Right. But
>> You're trying to discover one yep. But
it's a particularly intense one here I
think because of the rupture represented
by Trump. I mean I think a really
important thing to kind of understand
from the perspective of people in the
broad center left
>> [sighs]
>> is that
it's a real before and after situation
like
if you view Donald Trump's project as a
fundamental assault on the
constitutional order which is to
fundamentally transform
the nation into something that's not
democratic.
It's very hard to find continuity in
like the politics of old.
Like his abnormality and the abnormality
of his conduct
creates a world in which like
it's it's
it's like you've been untethered from
the spaceship and you're just like
floating out in the space you know?
Okay that that's right. So you you
didn't give me a single name about how
to solve people. Well, right.
>> No, but the reason I say that is just
because
what I'm saying is I think you need to
understand that like the way Democratic
Party voters are viewing this is in
extreme terms. I guess that's what I'm
trying to say.
>> Yes. No, I can I I can see that and I
can see that the core reality for a lot
of Democratic voters in 2026 is total
frustration with anyone who told them
in 2016 or 2018 or 2020 This will go
away.
>> This will go away. You just have to sort
of be normal, restore normalcy, and so
on, right? But the dilemma for the party
is that to win national elections
>> have to be normal and restore normalcy.
Well, you but you also you have to win
people who voted for Trump.
>> Yes. Right?
>> Correct.
>> And and this was something that
Democrats didn't think they had to do
after 2016 cuz Trump didn't win the
popular vote. But guess what?
After 2024, he won the popular vote. You
also need to win Senate seats and seats
that Trump won by more than a few
points, right? So,
it seems like this is, you know, not not
an impossible problem to solve, but a
very challenging one where you have this
a base that wants an acknowledgement of
rupture and abnormality and a
swing constituency that you need that
you need to win or hold that is just
living in the new reality.
>> So, let me give three examples of
national figures that I think are doing
interesting things to pull off that. Cuz
you're right, that's the fundamental
thing that you have to do, right?
Mark Kelly, Ruben Gallego, and Raphael
Warnock.
You can even say Jon Ossoff, too. Tell
me what what state each of those men
represent, just for the sake of it.
>> So, so let me let me give examples of
two states that are kind of key states
here, which are Arizona and Georgia, and
the four Democratic senators in those
states, right?
They've all won statewide office.
They've all won statewide office in the
era of Trump. Um Ruben Gallego and Mark
Kelly in Arizona, Jon Ossoff and Raphael
Warnock in Georgia. Um I'm I'm choosing
this advisably because of course Arizona
and Georgia being like the key states,
right? That that that Biden won and that
Kamala Harris lost.
Um and and particularly because they're
outside of the you know, blue belt, the
blue wall, right? This was a huge deal
that these states flipped to Democrats
in 2020.
And I think all four of them have
And I'm not saying they're necessarily
national leaders, but what I would say
is that all four of them have their own
way of dealing with precisely this
issue.
So like Ruben Gallego's voting record is
fairly moderate. He for instance, I
think all four of those senators, if I'm
not mistaken, voted for the Laken Riley
Act. Right? So like the first That was
one of the first votes. It was a big um
Republican-led measure to essentially
increase sanctions for immigrants who
committed crimes.
Named named for a woman who was killed
by an illegal immigrant.
>> Yep.
They all four of them voted for that. Um
and I think
you know, we're looking at their
internal polling and understood the
states they represented. Um I think
there were issues with that
legislation substantively, but putting
that aside,
I think all four have found different
ways to
rhetorically emphasize how abnormal and
wrong they think the direction of the
country is
while keeping their eyes on the main
issues that won them their Senate seats.
I mean, Warnock is sort of an amazing
example. Warnock is, you know, speaks in
the sort of register of a preacher,
which he is.
Broad moral language.
That guy will bring it back to
healthcare
and kitchen table issues every single
time.
He will call what's happening aberrant
and evil.
And he will also go back to this sort of
kitchen table vision.
And Mark Kelly's another great example,
right? Mark Kelly's got a fairly
moderate voting record in the United
States Senate.
He's being
maybe prosecuted, military pension
possibly suspended, I think all of which
is illegally good for his political
position.
>> possible thing for him.
>> Yeah. Um
And so I think in all those cases you're
seeing a combination of
a rhetoric that speaks to like the deep
sense of democratic and spiritual crisis
in the center left that I think all four
of those are pretty popular figures.
With basically a voting record and a
sort of substance of policy agenda
that pretty squarely sits in a kind of
center of the nation's politics. I think
I would say that all of them also have
personal characteristics that separate
them in some way from the kind of
churchiness of academic progressivism,
maybe, right? Um
Warnock speaks the language of
Christianity in a way that
democratic
coalition tends to be comfortable with.
Um
Gallego I would say is just kind of an
unwoke Hispanic dude, if I can You don't
have to comment on that, but that would
be my take. And Mark Mark Kelly is like
the whitest white astronaut you ever
saw, right? And some of the again, it's
sort of
these are I some of these are policy
positions, some of these are identity
positions, but all of them create a
perception that like this is a form of
democratic politics that is somewhat
distinct from
the kind of competition to say Latinx
the most.
>> Yes. Right?
>> mean I also do think like
I think that I think there's a little
bit of fighting a last war on that. I
think I think do I do think there's a
little bit of the alienating rhetorical
excesses of a certain part of the
let's say nonprofit, academic, and
online left, which sort of came together
in Twitter, particularly in 2014, '15,
'16, which were real.
Um Real enough, yeah. But
it did get kind of beaten out of people
a bit. Like the idea of what the
language of that 2016 or 2020 primary
looks like compared to now is pretty
different. Um
and I think partly that's just because
people have lost elections and we you
know, Democratic Party lost the most
important election of its lifetime.
And you have to talk in a way that
people understand and feels like a thing
that they've heard before.
So let me do the horrible thing though
and talk about presidential politics
>> Yes. in 2028, right?
>> Yes. I would say it just as an observer
of American politics that if I were
going to pick nominees for the Democrats
in 2028,
all of the guys you just mentioned would
be very plausible presidential or vice
presidential candidates. If you're
trying to maximize
just you know, maximize your popular
vote, maximize your share of swing
states.
The people leading the polls in the
Democratic primary right now
um are Gavin Newsom and Kamala Harris
who represent somewhat different models.
>> Yes. Um they are sort of Harris is a
legacy candidate who's polling
potentially could collapse upon
>> contact with political reality. It's
name recognition. That's that's
possible, right? Um
Newsom
Tell me what you think about Gavin
Newsom.
I think Newsom has the Hillary Clinton
problem.
Which is that
Hillary Clinton was perceived outside of
the Democratic Party and Democratic
coalition as like the ultimate lib. Like
the libbiest lib who ever lived and was
never actually like that much of a lib.
It was like and also had a record that
was like fairly centrist particularly as
a US Senator.
And that's like the worst uncanny valley
for a Democratic politician to be in
where the base doesn't trust you
um because you don't have a kind of
organic relationship with like the left
parts of the party.
And then the swing voter like just
thinks like that's a lib. You want the
inverse, right?
>> Right. Like you you you want the person
that um
has authentic relationships with the
left parts of the party in the
grassroots.
And also communicates broadly and is
viewed as a not particularly partisan or
liberal figure. Barack Obama being, you
know, a good example of that.
And I just think right now, and this
could change, like Newsom has the
opposite
set of factors. Like
he is made very
clear attempts to
show that he's bipartisan, centrist,
independent.
You know, there's some substance he's
done around the billionaire tax and, you
know, uh policy around trans folks that
that have been actual substantive
things he's done.
But moves to the center.
>> Yeah, or to the right and as some people
would say. Um
but
uh
but I haven't seen evidence that that
like
comes through. Like I just think there's
a reputational thing that's very
problem. Also partly if you're just like
the governor of California is a tough
a tough place to get the dem next
Democratic nominee from. Right. I mean,
he has he I mean, there were like Kamala
Harris, he has never run a important
election in which he had to win large
numbers of centrist to center-right
votes and that showed up big time in
Harris's campaign style, I think. And
you could see it as his weakness. But
look, here's his strength, right? His
strength is that he is able to get
attention and hold attention. And you,
Chris Hayes, wrote a book recently
called The Siren's Call. It's a very
interesting book, highly recommended
even though I disagree with, you know,
important parts of it, right? About
what the internet has done to political
culture. And you talk a lot about
attention in that in that book, right?
And
what what is the power of attention and
how has Newsom succeeded in grasping it?
Yeah, I mean, the the thesis of The
Siren's Call is basically that attention
is the most valuable resource of our
age. That the competition for it has
grown so fierce that it is
um increasingly valuable.
Uh but it's both valuable to us and it's
valuable to the companies that can
extract it. That's the main thesis of
the book. But it has a specific
importance in politics, right? Which is
you know, attention
is prior to everything you need to do
else in politics. Like I name
recognition's the not the thing we use,
right? Part of why our Gavin Newsom is
running high is he has high name
recognition.
That's been true forever, but it's more
true than ever because more things are
competing for our attention than ever
before. They're filtered through these
algorithmic platforms, right? That can
pull us hither and yon. And so the
primary thing you have to figure out
more than ever before in my lifetime to
be a successful politician is how to get
people's attention and cut through that.
Donald Trump did it incredibly
effectively. Had a whole bunch of
innovation in how he did it. And I think
you're right to to identify the fact
that Newsom has a real talent for that.
Like the whole stick he did where he was
like
you know,
posting in Donald Trump's voice. Some
people found it cringey, some people
found it hilarious.
But it
it worked. It got attention.
>> attention. Um
So the question is, right? So how does
that fit with the analysis? I mean,
look, the ideal situation you want, I
think if you're like designing this in a
lab, is someone that both has
a proven ability to speak to swing
voters and the voters you need and is
also really good at attention.
And the kind of nightmare scenario in a
Democratic primary is someone who's like
bad at the former and good at the
latter, right? I don't I don't think the
Democrats nominate someone in 2028 who
is sort of a kind of pure Right.
creature of
>> [snorts]
>> base craziness or whatever. Um I do
think though that there's a way in which
the narrative of the tension is itself
potentially a kind of
it's something that people can reach for
as a substitute for again like doing
hard things like pivoting to the center,
right? Where you say you know, I mean
like if you look at the Senate
>> pivoting to the center. He he well, he's
pivoting to the center but from I would
say from a position and this is to your
point as governor of California, right?
Where
>> the problem.
>> It's it's it's where he's starting from
is tough.
>> makes the pivot hard. But he was trying
to do it. I mean clearly. It's not like
he's he's not like what what he the the
the thing that I think you're going to
see a lot of politicians try to pull off
and it'll be interesting to see how the
base responds is like
maximal
sort of maximal kind of like attentional
trolling
resistance,
you know, um
rhetorical performance
and substantive pivot to the center.
Right. That's that's that's what you're
going to see a lot of people try to pull
off.
>> you do have a lot of situations right
now that I see again as a conservative
looking at liberals, right? Like if you
look at the Democratic Senate primary in
Texas, right? James Talarico has a kind
of religious pivot to the center but
fundamentally I don't see that in his
positions. He's sort of just doing a
Christian gloss on very conventional
progressive messaging. Um I just wonder
if you see that
you know, again as the author of a kind
of attention thesis as a situation where
Democrats are like, yeah, we're winning
we're winning the attention war and
therefore we don't have to worry about
swing voters.
I think we have to interrogate some of
the premises here, right? Because
underlying this
>> Listen listen to this academic
liberalism, Chris. [laughter]
Interrogate the pre Go on. Yeah,
interrogate the premises for pre Well,
here's I mean here's the question,
right?
All this depends on like how much we're
dealing with median voter theory here.
Like there's a median voter, that voter
is in in middle of a traditional
ideological axis, they're
cross-pressured on issues, and they move
towards the people who substantively
align with their policy views the the
most.
Um
I think there's a lot to that. I think
that's clearly was very true on
immigration in 2024. Like, really clear
story to tell there about that.
I also think that Donald Trump and his
success just like confounds that in a
million different ways. And people will
be like, "Well, he moderated on Social
Security and Medicare." And it's like,
"Yes, okay."
>> matter? I think that mattered a lot.
>> Yes. Yes, yes, it mattered.
Was it the Was that why Donald Trump
became the president of the United
States twice? Uh I'm a little skeptical
about that. So,
the reason I say that is that the
question presumes that like the way
to go back is that you need to like move
to the center on this sort of like
traditionally ordered axis, right?
Right. Which is like the left-right axis
and on individual issues. And I'm just
like a little skeptical that that's
true, right? Like, you need to be
perceived as a moderate, 100%. That is
true. You need to be perceived as
relatively independent, as not a kind of
like
traditional partisan
to win swing voters.
Is the way that you get that perception
like what your substantive policy is on
asylum law?
Maybe, maybe not. Like, it's just not
clear to me that those two things add so
neatly to each other. All right, this
seems like a good moment to
pull away from politics a little bit and
talk about the left just as a force onto
itself, right? A force that,
you know, sort of wants to pull politics
in its direction, doesn't necessarily
want to worry about exactly what the
median voter thinks, but wants to be a
kind of gravitational force in American
politics independent of, you know, what
you need to do to win election after
election. I've asked you where things
stand for the Democrats. Where do things
stand for the left? Like what what does
the left want?
Besides Donald Trump out of office and
defeated and so on. What is the positive
left-wing vision in American life right
now?
The question of the left is a little
complicated because we're talking about
the sort of people to the left of
liberals, the kinds of folks online who
would like use liberals as an insult. We
can say like let's let's start with
people who would define themselves as
left as opposed to
liberal mainstream Democrat whatever
else. People who have a self-conscious
identity.
I [snorts]
I mean I think the the positive vision
would be like a society of shared
flourishing and equality.
>> no no no no no give [laughter] me
All right. All right.
Sub All right, well then let me let me
let me frame the question differently.
Before we got to the possibility of some
kind of artificial intelligence
revolution.
>> Yep. And we're going to talk about that
possibility in a minute, but let's
bracket AI for a second. It seemed to me
like the left all across the Western
world had run into a kind of big
cul-de-sac obstacle whatever else in the
last 10 or 15 years. Basically, you have
a bunch of countries that are rich, have
big welfare states, they're all pretty
expensive. These societies are getting
old at a really rapid clip. And it seems
to me that that like basic dynamic just
sort of traps the left in a kind of
desperate attempt to shore up a status
quo that's under threat.
>> Defensive battle.
>> battles and doesn't leave room for, you
know, a utopian revolutionary vision,
which is sort of essential to the left
as I understand it. So
>> Yeah, I think it's a fair critique. I
mean I think that's
>> not a critique. It's I it's it's the to
me it's like the challenge and what is
is the are there sort of Well,
solutions?
>> I think that that is truly the case of
the center-left parties of the of the
say Socialist International in Europe,
right? I mean, which are just completely
hollowed out, moribund, and electorally
uh in a lot of trouble.
The Western Hemisphere is a very
different story for a bunch of different
reasons. Um and Well, we can we can
stick to America. But in the US, yeah, I
mean, look, well, you know, one attempt
to do that was the Green New Deal
vision, right? Was
look, let's talk about uh a sort of
techno-utopian world
we you know, we could have a world, and
this is actually a world that still
exists possibly in the future, although
it seems like so remote, of essentially
like zero marginal cost energy that's
carbon free, that would allow us to do
all sorts of things, right? And a
society in which like we don't have this
enormous concentration of both wealth
and energy wealth concentrated that's
much more distributed and much more
equal.
The the the biggest issue right now on
the left, I think, is
they have the the wind at their backs on
the central political economy question,
which is
does American capitalism work for the
ordinary person?
And I think
the polling reliably shows people say
the answer to that question is no.
Um profoundly no. Younger people
especially. Younger people especially.
And I think the level of wealth
concentration we've seen, the explosion
in spending by the wealthiest folks on
our political campaigns, whether it's
efficacious or not, and the kind of like
tech folks all there at the
inauguration, like
all of this creates a world that should
be ripe for a left critique. And in some
ways has been. I mean, there's a reason
that the mayor of New York is a
democratic socialist, which would have
been
you know, a very remote possibility 15
years earlier.
The question is what do you what kind of
society do you want, right? But isn't
but isn't the question how do you pay
for the society you want? Cuz it seems
to me that yeah, that vision that vision
is in principle very popular. Bernie
Sanders has been a very popular figure
making that kind of case.
The right, the populist right, has
traded on elements of that vision, tried
to appropriate it and so on.
But when it comes to, you know, are we
going to do a
massive new public works program? Right.
It seems like the left hit one wall with
inflation under Biden. It spent a lot of
money and got inflation, which was
incredibly unpopular. And the other wall
is that yes, you can tax the
billionaires and that's popular, but to
fund a totally revised welfare state,
you need to tax a lot more people than
that. And that is deeply unpopular, too.
And does anything change those facts for
the left? Well,
I would say there's a different set of
questions that are to me a little more
important. I think one of the traps in
center-left policy in the last, say, 30
years is that we have this sort of
pre-tax and transfer inequality and then
tax and transfer to change it.
And
we just keep getting more and more
inequality in the, you know, what the
market does. And then the recipe is more
and more redistribution. And like, it's
more than rhetorical. Ask Ask rich
people in New York whether the
leftist project of taxing wealthy people
in New York has been rhetorical.
It has very much not. I mean, I I won't
I won't ask you how you how you're aware
of that, Chris. [laughter]
Um it it is the most redistributive tax
regime in the entire country. Um you
know, there's a new line put in above
$25 million. They're trying to get the
billionaire tax in California. Like,
they're
That's real stuff and real money.
The problem is you can't have a
political economy that just keeps
producing
like this larger and larger
forms of inequality that that then have
larger and larger amounts of
redistribution
to produce an equitable society. Like so
the question then becomes well what is
the vision for an equitable
market economy or labor market or labor
force or society that is genuinely
middle class? But even for that you have
to as far as I can like I just don't
think you get that more equitable
society by passing like some you know
pro-labor regulations or something. Like
you know you mentioned the green new
deal. Like any any story you want to
tell
about changing just the way people are
employed and paid in America itself
would require
massive public works spending, massive
new industrial policy. And that money
has to come from
somewhere and the left certainly doesn't
want to you know cut social security or
Medicare or anything like that, right?
So it is isn't it still sort of stuck
saying we're going to add another line
above 25 million like
to get the money to create the
pre-distribution?
>> Well, I just think that the the
it's thinking in too narrow terms to
think about this like specific tax and
transfer question. I mean the other
thing I'll say is like there really is a
lot of money at the top.
>> [laughter]
>> Like you can't fund a welfare state with
it but like you can start with a wealth
tax. Like that that actually is like a
very developed clear idea. It's very
popular. It would be fought tooth and
nail but There yeah. There really is a
lot at the top.
>> Okay. But yes, you're correct that
you have to build. I mean what's the
most durable form of you know social
transfer, right? Social security and
Medicare. Really social security the
most. And you know social security is
actually relatively regressive as a tax
and is broadly shared. And so to get
back around to the point I think you're
making is that like you do at a certain
point have to take the tax revolt head
on. Yes.
You do.
>> Right. You have to convince some middle
class or middle class people that they
should pay more taxes. Yeah. But the
thing I would say about that is
if that's what your ultimate project is,
right? Which is I mean, this would be
what say Bernie Sanders Medicare for all
would require and he was clear about
that. There will be more in taxes and
yes for you, right? He didn't try to
like wave away the math on that. He was
crystal clear about it. That said, that
is only a plausible political vision,
right? A shared vision,
if you're also really going after the
billionaires. I mean, a country in which
like those people who are billionaires
are paying us lower effective tax rate
and like yes, is this a campaign cliche?
Yes. Is it true? 100% it's also true.
Is not a world in which like you can
plausibly ask people
to have this sort of shared vision.
All right, let's talk about how
artificial intelligence might shake up
the landscape. And I cuz I think it
enters into all of these
>> Yes, very much so.
>> debates in powerful ways. But start
again, since we're talking about the
left, there is a narrative to which I
have contributed that says basically
the left right now, meaning academics,
[snorts] intellectuals, activists and so
on,
less so politicians maybe, is just not
taking AI seriously enough. That there's
a bunch of people on the left who just
keep wanting to say,
you know, it's just not as big a deal.
It's getting hyped, you know, it's you
know, it's the AI companies talking
their book
>> Yep. and what is actually being
delivered is not a game-changer. Um
to the extent that that's what the left
is saying, I think it's wrong. I I don't
know how big a deal AI is, but I think
it's a pretty big deal. But do you think
that's a fair critique? How how do you
see the left-wing conversation on
artificial intelligence?
>> Well, I
I think there is a fair amount of that.
I think there's a little bit of wishful
thinking of like
this is the metaverse.
Um
>> Right. It's the right, it's crypto, the
metaverse. We had a run of things from
Silicon Valley that were not And in
defense Right, in defense of people
saying that like there is very recent
uh evidence of a enormous bubble in
which, like, one of the most
powerful, rich companies in America
literally changed its name to Meta.
And it was ridiculous.
>> [laughter]
>> Right. The the holo- the holodeck The
holodeck didn't appear. It's like,
sometimes everyone does jump in the hype
pool, and everyone is wrong.
As as just a as a baseline, that's an
important thing that I And the reason I
say that is because that is a very key
part of the way that I think a lot of
people think about this. Like,
Right.
>> This has happened before. But you would
concede I don't think you agree with
this, but you would concede that more
people are all in in much bigger ways
for AI than, I think, ever were for,
you know, tooling around in virtual
reality.
>> Well, I think it
>> Mark Zuckerberg was in for it.
>> I think the distinguishing thing is that
it's just
obviously a more impressive and useful
technology. Like, [laughter] the like
the it can you can explain to a person
very quickly what it does or what it
could do that's useful in a way that you
couldn't with the metaverse, right? So,
that's the key thing. I mean, so I would
say, yes, there's a certain amount of um
it's all a scam.
I do think it's probably worth
distinguishing between the technology
and
the the business model, which are
distinct, right? Like, I was thinking
about this the other day,
there was a company called cosmo.com in
1999 to like 2001. I remember them well.
>> And Urban Fetch. And their idea was you
would be able to order anything you
wanted,
whether it was soda,
a VHS, groceries within an hour, 2
hours, whatever.
And it was like the typical classic late
'90s dot-com boom.
And it,
you know, went out of business very
quickly.
But they clearly were on to something.
They were just a little too early.
>> Right.
So, like, I think it's important to keep
this distinction in your head between
is the technology useful and going to be
transformative, and is the current
business model or business hype around
it like correctly valued in the market.
And the reason I say is because those
get conflated sometimes in this
discussion in ways that I think are not
helpful. And particularly I think people
on the left who are like,
"It's all BS or it's all going to go
away." It's like, yeah, there might be a
huge crash.
But very clearly this is a
transformative technology.
So then the question becomes like,
how people on the left think about that
transformative technology. And I would
say over overwhelmingly it's extremely
negative.
Right?
And I think let me defend why it's
negative.
One is
it really is the case that they just
took everyone's intellectual property
>> [laughter]
>> without compensation
and trained up models that could then
like replace the people that generated
them.
That's like an actual thing that
happened. That's pretty messed up. It's
kind of a crazy transfer of value
when you think about it, like
artists that made stuff, people that
wrote things. Now
>> Newspaper for columnists.
>> Newspaper columnists, I mean
>> Cable cable TV hosts.
>> Anthropic settlement, you know, like I I
have also received literature [laughter]
from the Anthropic settlement. Yep.
>> So like
yeah, A, B,
the people that are controlling it
are a tiny sliver of people. And like
one of the sort of fundamental insights
of the left, right, is like
real intense forms of concentrated power
[laughter]
of, you know, billionaire capitalists
making huge decisions for everyone is
pretty bad. And
right now you've got like, what?
Five or six people that are making
decisions about how trillions of dollars
of capital is allocated and what all of
our futures are going to look like, like
no thanks, man. Like I don't
I don't like that at all.
Well, fortunately the people making
those decisions are completely normal in
every way.
Hold no eccentric views about um, you
know, the the nature the nature of the
human future. Um, no, I I think I think
that that story makes sense, but then
what is
what is an actual left-wing
AI politics looks like? Cuz right now
>> question.
>> Right right now you have Bernie Sanders
You have Bernie Sanders has called for a
moratorium on building data centers.
To me, this seems like something that is
likely to be fairly popular in a lot of
places and ultimately basically useless.
That it's basically sort of NIMBYism,
not in my backyard, and what will happen
is the data centers will get built in
other states or they'll get built in the
Middle East or they'll get built in
Africa, and at most you're slowing down
AI maybe a tiny bit. You're not doing
anything about China, and you need some
other plan.
>> So, let me Can I argue against that for
a second? Just because I I think
question is like, okay, well, where do
you start, right? So,
I think there's a real parallel to the
arguments around globalization, trade,
and neoliberalism that happened the late
1990s. Because people said the exact
same thing there.
It's like, well, what are you going to
do? You're like, this is just the way
the world is moving, and if we don't
make this trade deal, then other
countries will make that trade deal. And
things are going to get automated, and
what you want to like cling to factories
for the rest of your life, and this is
just like the way the world is moving,
and yeah, you kids can go riot in
Seattle with your dumb WTO protest and
like try to save the owls, but like
in the end, that's all going to be
ineffectual.
And then what really happened was like
Donald Trump and J.D. Vance came along
to be like, "Hey, man, probably not a
great thing to like absolutely
sledgehammer the entirety of our
industrial base and just take millions
of people and turn their towns into like
absolutely hollowed-out husks and leave
everyone just like begging for enough
opioids to kill the pain of what had
been taken."
And I want to go back and be like, "Wait
a second, those people were right. They
were identifying something correctly
when they said, back when we had this
debate the first time, that there were
going to be enormous consequences to
this model of economic development, to a
bunch of policy decisions that were
actually made. Remember,
that led to that destruction. So,
the downsides of data centers,
as I understand it, is yes, there are
some questions about electricity
generation and sort of green concerns
and so on.
>> Well,
I don't think we're going to resolve
that. I'm not convinced that they're
that big, but like my concern with data
centers is
the thing that they are enabling and how
it transforms us.
>> Right. Okay. But my but my point the
reason I say that is it No, because I'm
I'm saying the full thing, right? I'm
saying if if you're saying my project is
to put a crowbar in the wheels of the
machinery of the creation of a new
vision for how the world will be
ordered, and the way I'm doing is I'm
stopping this data center, right? Right.
Like, what else do you want people to
do?
I mean, I think you do need to figure
out the right place to put your crowbar,
right? So, if this is, to use a
different historical analogy, right? If
this is akin to the Industrial
Revolution, in the end, the people who,
you know, smashed looms and so on,
didn't really have a plausible agenda.
Right. And the people who instituted
child labor laws Right. And yes.
>> to and and did, right?
>> Right. Yeah. So, that would be a a left
a left-friendly example. I'm not I'm not
sure that works. Like, look, the there
is a part of me certainly that looks at
certain doom doom-laden projections for
the future of AI, and it's like, yeah,
you know, you stop it wherever you can,
and if you've got to use, you know,
NIMBYism that I might oppose in other
circumstances to do it, so be it.
>> Right. I just don't see the path from a
data center doesn't get built in Oregon
>> Totally. to Well, we prevent AI from
Totally. doing something bad.
>> Yes. I mean, the reason [clears throat]
that I sort of defend that project is
just because like as a means into the
politics of it. Ultimately,
I mean, Lawrence Lessig said this to me,
um,
the Harvard Law professor, and he's been
thinking about AI and democracy, where
he's like
he said this thing that stuck with him,
he's like, "Imagine if we had the
nuclear arms race, but it was just
private companies."
Like
Well, and and well, and but but also the
people building building the nukes were
talking to the nukes. And the nukes
[laughter]
the nukes were You used to you used to
the nukes [clears throat] were saying
Don't you want to press the button? a
lot [laughter] of things. Right. No, no,
it's very it's it's a very I I agree.
And we're having Again, we're having
this this conversation, I should note,
in the shadow of an ongoing dispute
between the Pentagon and Anthropic about
the uses of Anthropic's technology. But
wait, in that debate, you're on the side
of Anthropic, right? You don't want
Like, if [laughter] I said to you,
Chris, should the Department of Defense
take over Right? No. That's what they're
threatening. They're threatening Defense
Production Act. Right? So, you would but
you don't want No. I mean AI the AI race
managed by Pete Hegseth. No. Okay. So,
what is the solution to Lessig's
conundrum? I mean, there has to be
at the broadest level. I don't I mean,
let me just be clear. I don't know.
>> a board Maybe a board of peace to manage
it. No, I mean, like
I don't know. But some kind of some kind
of civilian governmental control,
Civilian governmental regulate Like, I
mean, right now, as far as I can
understand,
there's zero regulation. I mean, I don't
think it There's nothing. Now, again, I
am not at all enough like not even begin
to be at the
threshold of being enough of an expert
or AI wonk to tell you like
what should the governmental regime be.
>> Right. But but stick sticking to the
level of politics though, right? It
seems like there's a line that
Democrats,
liberals, and not only Democrats and
liberals, but some some form of populist
AI backlash, which by the way, everyone
who works in AI expects. Right? If you
talk to people who are
>> Dario said it and yeah, I mean
>> Right? He
said it on my podcast, but like you
everyone who is in that small sliver of
people who you mentioned assumes that
2028 2030, if we get that far
>> Right. right? That our politics will be
consumed by people who have your some
version of your reaction. But but that
but that could go in a lot of different
ways.
>> politically
different political balances of that
same reaction.
>> be the Steve Bannon anti But but just on
the left, like do you think that sort of
the idea that you need to regulate AI
for safety actually breaks through as a
political issue? Or do you think it only
breaks through if it's like about job
loss? I think that
you know, part of part of what's
difficult to disentangle is there's such
an obvious concerted effort
to paint a maximalist picture of the
possibility of the power of the
technology
by people that are
right now in
rounds of investment raising, right? For
companies that are absolutely bleeding
uh capital. They're nowhere near
profitable.
That you you have to So there's a
skepticism of like, is it really going
to be the doomsday machine and it's
going to, you know, be hell and all this
stuff.
I'm pretty worried about that, actually.
Like I think and I think but I but but
just descriptively, I feel like that
doesn't have that much purchase. I think
the thing that does have purchase
are two things. One is
this notion, and I've talked about this
a bit, is just like
to the extent they have a business
proposition, which they do, is to
replace white-collar workers with
machines.
Basically. Like we automated all these
other jobs, we're going to automate
these jobs. And
you know, to go back to the metaphor I I
using before about the sort of big trade
debates, it's like
yeah, what do American politics look
like if you turn Marin County into
Youngstown and you know,
Park Slope into Gary, Indiana?
Probably not great.
What does the American economy look
like? Like
so
I think there's a real sense of like
the sledgehammer is coming for the part
of the
economic capitalist American project
where like
people have homes and they take
vacations and they send their kids to
good schools and it's like
if the project of AI is to just now take
out that layer,
I think A you will create
insane amounts of political backlash,
but I also think you'll American
politics will go even more insane than
they are now.
Do you I I think
I think you essentially gave an answer
to this question earlier when you talked
about sort of the problem with
redistribution, right? But it seems like
the left under those circumstances could
take a form of saying
look, we need
UBI, universal basic income, job
guarantee of some kind.
>> Well, that's well see, these are
different things, right? There's there's
a version that says you basically want
to look at all the money that the people
in the AI world are going to be making
and you want to tax it just directly
subsidize Americans out of that
largesse.
Or
you need a politics that basically
protects work.
And it sounds to me like you are on the
job side, not the UBI side.
I I guess I haven't thought it through
enough to feel like I have a very fixed
view on either. I think they are also
can be complementary in certain ways.
I think to me the animating principle
here, which I think is the animating
principle for a lot of
left liberal resistance to this, is just
like
an increasing appreciation of the
specialness of being human and the
dignity of being human and
humans doing human things like making
stuff and sharing it with each other and
a world that feels increasingly designed
to strip away, extract, exploit, and
reduce that fundamental humanness. And
um
that to me is kind of like the beating
heart beneath whatever the policy is.
I don't know we
It's not like a job gives life meaning,
but like
we need we need space for people to be
able to
create a stable world for themselves,
raise their families, be with their
friends, pursue their goals and
projects.
Um
And
be engaged in the world and their their
communities.
>> Yeah. So, this is this is a good place
to
to end because this is where I I wanted
to ask you about this.
I think the left has been radically
underestimating the capacities of AI
and in a way that has left left-wing
politics somewhat unprepared for where
we're going. At the same time, I am glad
I appreciate the extent to which the
left critique of AI has been framed in
those terms as a kind of defense of
humanism and dare I say
human exceptionalism in the face of
machine alternatives because
that's not the only possible direction
for the left to go in. There has been a
kind of
various kinds of sort of anti-humanist
tendencies on the left for as long as
I've been alive. There's a kind of
secular materialism that sort of is
incredibly reductive about the human
mind and dismisses free will. There's a
kind of academic deconstructionism that
reduces like all human art to power
relations. And then, you know, there is
a kind of environmentalist
left that is skeptical, let's say, about
the human contribution to the to the
biome. So, I'm I'm really happy to have
the left in their defending
human exceptionalism. Um
are you confident that that will stick?
Like
as opposed to a world where the left
decides that, you know, we need to
defend the parasocial relationships that
people have with their AI that are just
as important as, you know, male-female
marriage of the old school, right? Like
I I think that's a direction the left
could could take. Do you?
That feels very remote from what's
happening now, but I think it also
>> I agree and I've been encouraged
>> I think it depends a lot on the
trajectory of the technology and also
the deployment of it. Um
I guess the sort of thread you're
pulling on intellectually is like
this sort of um
yeah, species exceptionalism, right?
Like our our Is there something
particularly uniquely great about being
a human and and distinct about it? And
if you're a materialist or you're a
animal rights activist, you're skeptical
of those claims.
I guess I would just say again like as a
sort of sociological fact, what I found
sort of bracing at this moment and which
I feel deeply personally, I'll just
speak for myself for a second.
It's really
put me in touch with humanism in like a
deep way of like
what it means to be human, what's
amazing about being a human, what's
distinct about being a human, what the
tradition of um
the liberal arts and why it's like
important to read and study and
actually, you know, write write for
yourself
>> [laughter]
>> and not hire a robot to go to the gym to
work out for you, uh which is like what
we're doing in colleges in mass, right?
Um
And I think
I I think that right now that's the
dominant reaction, um
which I think is
um
I think is good and And think, you know
I been thinking about this we just say
this about cuz I think it connects in
some ways to one of the things that
I saw we saw in Minnesota,
which is this notion of like
I think coming out of COVID
and the experience of that, this sort of
sense of like the the the power and
importance of just human connection like
face-to-face
and community connection and neighbors,
you know, neighbor is the term that all
the folks in Minnesota were using and
that like there does feel like there is
above and beyond this AI discussion
a kind of resurgent humanism and an
appreciation of human connection. Um
in a lot of what's happening right now
in this political moment on the on a
broad center left, yeah.
>> Yeah, and well, too, I we can end with
politics, but just the Do you think
2028, is it an AI election? Like is that
is that your expectation?
>> Oh, I just I feel so much radical
uncertainty about the future direction
of the country.
>> have to you have to end you have to end
by giving me a prediction. Imagine that
you are
>> [laughter]
>> that you're Claude or ChatGPT and I'm
typing in and, you know, I'm asking you,
you know,
>> Here's what I think. I I think in the
sense that I think it will be
I think the odds of it being the center
of whatever the economic story is
in that year are high enough that that's
likely to be the dominant thing.
Okay, I'll accept that. Chris Hayes,
thank you so much for joining me. I
enjoyed it.